---
layout: post
title: Fall 2016 anime
date: 2016-11-01 17:30:00
categories: anime review
---

I have Shingles which feels like having been beaten with a bat. The virus hurts you because it travels down your nerves before erupting on your skin in what looks like a giant pus-filled cluster of boils. What the fuck!?

I am watching the following anime this season in rough order of preference:

## Girlish Number

The third anime I've watched about making an anime, I like the lead character, she's cynical. Unfortunately in the most recent episode she's fallen into the "I have to work hard to be the best I can" trope. So we'll see.

## Miss Bernard said

An anime short set in a library about books where the main character pretends to have read books that she hasn't.

## WWW.WAGNARIA

It's pretty funny I guess, some fairly original twists on the usual tropes and some comedy that's almost bizarre enough to remind me of Nichijou. Anything that reminds you of Nichijou has to be good?

## Occultic;Nine

After persevering some very annoying characters there is a lot of promise in this. Mainly because it reminds me of [Paranoia Agent](https://myanimelist.net/anime/323/Mousou_Dairinin).

Some honourable mentions:
 * Drifters
 * Trickster

Questionable stuff I haven't dropped yet:
 * Izetta the last witch: The ecchi side clashes with the attempt to capture a Japanese idealised version of WWII Europe. Mostly forgettable.
 * Bloodivores: Unoriginal vampire show. When they started talking about "Hemomancers" (apparently a slightly more magical verson of a vampire) it was hard not to laugh.
